@c -*- mode: texinfo; coding: utf-8 -*-
@c This is part of the GNU Guile-CV Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 - 2023 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file guile-cv.texi for copying conditions.


@node Image Structure and Accessors
@subsection Image Structure and Accessors

The Guile-CV procedures and methods related to image data structure,
creating, accessing and copying images.


@subheading Procedures

@ifhtml
@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{im-make}
@item @ref{im-make-channel}
@item @ref{im-make-channels}

@item @ref{im-copy}
@item @ref{im-copy-channel}

@item @ref{im-size_}
@item @ref{im-width_}
@item @ref{im-height_}
@item @ref{im-n-channel_}
@item @ref{im-channels_}
@item @ref{im-channel}

@item @ref{im-image?}
@item @ref{im-gray?_}
@item @ref{im-rgb?_}

@item @ref{im-binary?}
@item @ref{im-binary-channel?}

@item @ref{im-=?}
@item @ref{im-=-channel?}

@item @ref{im-ref}
@item @ref{im-fast-ref}
@item @ref{im-set!}
@item @ref{im-fast-set!}

@item @ref{im-channel-offset}
@item @ref{im-fast-channel-offset}

@item @ref{im-channel-ref}
@item @ref{im-fast-channel-ref}
@item @ref{im-channel-set!}
@item @ref{im-fast-channel-set!}

@item @ref{im-collect}
@end table
@end indentedblock
@end ifhtml


@subheading Description

A Guile-CV image is represented by a list containing the following
elements:

@lisp
(@var{width} @var{height} @var{n-channel} @var{idata})
@end lisp

where @var{idata} is a list of @var{n-channel} elements, each element
being a vector of @code{(* @var{width} @var{height})} cells. More
precisely, each element is an @code{srfi-4} homogeneous numeric vector
of 32 bit floats, called @code{f32vector}, knowing that @code{f32} is
the C type @code{float}.

The external representation (ie. read syntax) for @var{idata} vectors is
@code{#f32(@dots{})}. As an example, a gray scale image of width 3 and
height 2, initialized to 0.0 is represented by the following expression:

@lisp
(3 2 1 (#f32(0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0)))
@end lisp

The @var{n-channel} is an integer @code{>= 1}, with no limit but the
memory size.  This said, most Guile-CV procedures and methods expect
either GRAY scale (@var{n-channel=1}), or RGB (@var{n-channel=3})
images.  For the later, the channels are @code{Red}, @code{Green} and
@code{Blue} in that order.

Guile-CV provides usefull accessors for all these fields. However, very
often, you will need them all, in which case your best friend is
@code{(ice-9 match)}, here is an example:

@lisp
,use (cv)
(define image (im-make 4 3 3))
(match image
  ((width height n-chan idata)
   (match idata
     ((r g b)
      ... your code here ...))))
@end lisp

You will find many examples of such a @samp{pattern} in Guile-CV's
source code itself of course, along with some other @samp{techniques}
that might be useful, so we invite you to read it, and if you do so:
feedback, design and code review is more then welcome! This section
describes what is in the module @code{(cv idata)}.

Note that the @code{(cv)} module imports and re-exports, among may
others, the public interface of @code{(ice-9 match)}.


@subheading Procedures

@anchor{im-make}
@anchor{im-make-channel}
@anchor{im-make-channels}
@deffn Procedure im-make width height n [value]
@deffnx Procedure im-make-channel width height [value]
@deffnx Procedure im-make-channels width height n [value]

Returns a new image, list of channels or channel.

Each channel is an srfi-4 homogeneous vector of 32 bit floats
(f32vector), of @var{width} by @var{height} initialized to
@var{value}. The default @var{value} is 0.0
@end deffn


@anchor{im-copy}
@anchor{im-copy-channel}
@deffn Procedure im-copy image
@deffnx Procedure im-copy-channel channel width height

Returns a new fresh copy of @var{image} or @var{channel}.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-size_}
@deffn Method im-size image

Returns the list of @code{(@var{width} @var{height} @var{n-channel})for
@var{image}}.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-width_}
@anchor{im-height_}
@anchor{im-n-channel_}
@anchor{im-channels_}
@anchor{im-channel}
@deffn Method im-width image
@deffnx Method im-height image
@deffnx Method im-n-channel image
@deffnx Method im-channels image
@deffnx Procedure im-channel image n

Returns, respectively the @var{width}, the @var{height}, @var{n-channel},
@var{channels} or the @var{n}th channel for @var{image}.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-image?}
@anchor{im-gray?_}
@anchor{im-rgb?_}
@deffn Procedure im-image? image
@deffnx Method im-gray? image
@deffnx Method im-rgb? image

Returns @code{#t} if @var{image} is respectively a Guile-CV image, a
GRAY scale or an RGB image.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-binary?}
@anchor{im-binary-channel?}
@deffn Procedure im-binary? i1 i2 i3 @dots{}
@deffnx Procedure im-binary-channel? width height c1 c2 c3 @dots{}

Returns @code{#t} if @var{i1} @var{i2} @var{i3} @dots{} or @var{c1}
@var{c2} @var{c3} @dots{} respectively are BINARY (Black and White)
images or channels respectively.

Note that when more then one image or channel is passed, they must all
be of the same size.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-=?}
@anchor{im-=-channel?}
@deffn Procedure im-=? [precision] i1 i2 i3 @dots{}
@deffnx Procedure im-=-channel? width height [precision] c1 c2 c3 @dots{}

Returns @code{#t} if @var{i1} @var{i2} @var{i3} @dots{} or @var{c1}
@var{c2} @var{c3} @dots{} respectively are of the same size, have the
same number of channels that all respectively contain the same values.

If the first argument is a number, it is used as the precision to
compare pixel values. The default precision value is @code{1.0e-4}.
Note that if you are certain your images or channels contain 'discrete'
float values, you may pass @code{0.0} as the precision to be used, i
which case values will be compared using @code{=} (instead of
@code{float=?}, which is faster.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-ref}
@anchor{im-fast-ref}
@deffn Procedure im-ref image i j [k]
@deffnx Procedure im-fast-ref image i j [k]

Returns the pixel value stored at position @var{i} and @var{j} of the
@var{image} channel @var{k}.  The default value for @var{k} is 0.

@var{im-fast-ref} does not check the validity of its arguments: use it
at your own risk.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-set!}
@anchor{im-fast-set!}
@deffn Procedure im-set! image i j [k] value
@deffnx Procedure im-fast-set! image i j [k] value

Returns nothing.

Sets the pixel value stored at position @var{i} and @var{j} of the
@var{image} channel @var{k} to @var{value}.  The default value for
@var{k} is 0.

@var{im-fast-set!} does not check the validity of its arguments: use it
at your own risk.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-channel-offset}
@anchor{im-fast-channel-offset}
@deffn Procedure im-channel-offset i j width height
@deffnx Procedure im-fast-channel-offset i j width

Returns the channel offset for the @var{i} and @var{j} indices, based on
the @var{width} and @var{height} of the channel.

This procedure converts the matrix indices @var{i} and @var{j} to a
vector offset for a channel of size @var{width} and @var{height}.

@var{im-fast-channel-offset} does not check the validity of its
arguments: use it at your own risk.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-channel-ref}
@anchor{im-fast-channel-ref}
@deffn Procedure im-channel-ref channel i j width height
@deffnx Procedure im-fast-channel-ref channel i j width

Returns the pixel value stored at position @var{i} and @var{j} of the
channel of size @var{width} and @var{height}.

@var{im-fast-channel-ref} does not check the validity of its arguments:
use it at your own risk.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-channel-set!}
@anchor{im-fast-channel-set!}
@deffn Procedure im-channel-set! channel i j width height value
@deffnx Procedure im-fast-channel-set! channel i j width value

Returns nothing.

Sets the pixel at position @var{i} and @var{j} of @var{channel} of size
@var{width} and @var{height} to @var{value}.

@var{im-fast-channel-set!} does not check the validity of its arguments:
use it at your own risk.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-collect}
@deffn Procedure im-collect what i1 i2 i3 @dots{}

Returns a list of @var{what} collected from @var{i1 i2 i3} @dots{}

The valid @var{what} synbols are:
@indentedblock
@table @code
@item size
@item width
@item height
@item n-channel
@item channels
@item chan-0, gray, red
@item chan-1, green
@item chan-2, blue
@item chan-k (*)
@end table
@end indentedblock

(*): whith k being a valid channel indice, [0 (- n 1)].
@end deffn
