@c -*- mode: texinfo; coding: utf-8 -*-
@c This is part of the GNU Guile-CV Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 - 2018 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file guile-cv.texi for copying conditions.


@node Texture
@subsection Texture

The Guile-CV procedures and methods related to image texture measures.


@subheading Procedures

@ifhtml
@indentedblock
@table @code
@item @ref{im-texture}
@item @ref{im-glcp}
@item @ref{im-glcm}
@end table
@end indentedblock
@end ifhtml


@subheading Description

Although introduced a long time ago@footnote{R. M. Haralick,
K. Shanmugam, and I. Dinstein, Textural Features of Image
Classification, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics,
vol. SMC-3, no. 6, Nov. 1973.}, image texture measures are still very
actual, with new research and practicle applications in many areas, as
described in this (highly recommended) document@footnote{M. Hall-Beyer,
GLCM Texture: A Tutorial v. 3.0 March 2017}.

Image texture measures are @samp{descriptive statistics}, derived from
the @samp{Gray Level Co-occurrence Matrices (GLCM)} and its associated
set of @samp{Gray Level Co-occurrence Probability (GLCP)} matrices.

Guile-CV @code{GLCM} and @code{GLCP} data structures are identical to
the one used for Guile-CV images (@xref{Image Structure and Accessors}).
Although they are not images @samp{per se}, they are composed of four
square matrices (four channels), of size @code{n-gl} (the number of gray
levels to consider), and upon which we (and users) need to run linear
algebra procedures, already defined and available in Guile-CV.

Guile-CV offers the 11th first @code{texture measures}, out of the 14th
originally proposed by Haralick et al., which are the most commonly used
and adopted ones.

This reference manual assumes you are familiar with the concepts,
terminology and mathematic formulas involved in the calculations of
@code{GLCM}s, @code{GLCP}s and @code{image texture measures}. If that is
not the case, consider carefully reading one or both of the documents
cited above (or any other tutorial or reference material of your choice
of course).


@subheading Procedures

@anchor{im-texture}
@deffn Procedure im-texture image n-gl [#:dist 1] [#:p-max 255] @
       [#:use-log2 #f] [#:no-px-y0 #f]
@cindex Image Textures

Returns a list.

The procedure calls @ref{im-glcp}, passing @var{image}, @var{n-gl} (the
number of gray levels to consider), @var{dist} (the distance between the
@samp{reference} and the @samp{neighbour} pixels) and @var{p-max} (the
@var{image} (pixel) maximum value), then computes and returns a list of
the 11th first texture measures proposed by Haralick et al., which are:

@indentedblock
@table @code
@c @enumerate

@item (h1) uniformity (angular second moment)
@item (h2) contrast
@item (h3) correlation
@item (h4) variance (sum of squares)
@item (h5) homogeneity (inverse difference moment)
@item (h6) sum average
@item (h7) sum variance
@item (h8) sum entropy
@item (h9) entropy
@item (h10) difference variance
@item (h11) difference entropy

@end table
@c @end enumerate
@end indentedblock

The @var{#:use-log2} optional keyword argument, which defaults to
@code{#f}, is passed to the internal procedures that calculate the
parameters @code{h8}, @code{h9} and @code{h11}. The original formulas
proposed by Haralck and al. use @code{log}, but I have seen a couple of
implementations using @code{log2}@footnote{Since it is used as a
@code{factor} in all three formulas, the final result obtained using
@code{log2} is equivalent to the result obtained using @code{log}
multiplied by @code{1.4426950408889634}}.

The @var{#:no-px-y0} optional keyword argument, which defaults to
@code{#f}, is passed to the internal procedure that calculate the
parameter @code{h10}.  For some obscure reason, and only with respect to
this parameter, I have seen some implementations eliminating the first
element of the so-called @code{Px-y}, an internediate @code{f32vector}
result, which holds, as its first element, the sum of the elements of
the main diagnal of the @code{GLCP}@footnote{Guile-CV computes the
@code{difference average} using all elements of the @code{Px-y}, by
default, but offers this option as a courtesy, for users who would want
to use Guile-CV as an immediate substitute to compute image texture
measures for a (large) image set for which they would already have
trained a classifier. It is not recommended to use it otherwise.}.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-glcp}
@deffn Procedure im-glcp image n-gl [#:dist 1] [#:p-max 255]
@cindex Gray Level Co-occurence Probability
@cindex GLCP

Returns the @code{GLCP} for @var{image}.

The procedure calls @ref{im-glcm}, passing @var{image}, @var{n-gl} (the
number of gray levels to consider), @var{dist} (the distance between the
@samp{reference} and the @samp{neighbour} pixels) and @var{p-max} (the
@var{image} (pixel) maximum value), adds @code{GLCM'} (the transposed
version of @code{GLCM}, so the result is symmetrical around the
diagonal), then computes and returns the @code{GLCP}.

The returned @code{GLCP} is an @samp{image} composed four channels (four
square matrices of size @var{n-gl}), corresponding to the (symmetrical)
Gray Level Co-occurrences expressed as propabibilities, each calculated
at a specific @samp{angle}, respectively @code{0º}, @code{45º},
@code{90º}, and @code{135º}.
@end deffn


@anchor{im-glcm}
@deffn Procedure im-glcm image n-gl [#:dist 1] [#:p-max 255]
@cindex Gray Level Co-occurence Matrix
@cindex GLCM

Returns the @code{GLCM} for @var{image}.

The procedure scales the original @var{image} (it brings its values in
the range @code{[0 (- n-gl 1)]}), then computes and returns the @code{GLCM}.

The returned @code{GLCM} is an @samp{image} composed four channels (four
square matrices of size @var{n-gl}), corresponding to the Gray Level
Co-occurrences, each calculated at a specific @samp{angle}, respectively
@code{0º}, @code{45º}, @code{90º}, and @code{135º}.
@end deffn
