\input texinfo
@c -*- mode: texinfo; coding: utf-8 -*-
@c This is part of the GNU Guile-CV Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2016 - 2023 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
@c See the file guile-cv.texi for copying conditions.

@setfilename guile-cv.info

@documentencoding UTF-8
@paragraphindent none
@firstparagraphindent insert

@include version.texi
@include variables.texi

@settitle @value{TITLE}
@c @afourpaper


@copying
This manual documents Guile-CV version @value{VERSION}.

Copyright (C) 2016 - 2023 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free
Documentation License.''
@end copying


@dircategory Software
@direntry
* Guile-CV: (guile-cv).  
@end direntry

@c Choices for setchapternewpage are {on,off,odd}.
@setchapternewpage off
@c @paragraphindent 0

@iftex
@finalout
@c DL: lose the egregious vertical whitespace, esp. around examples
@c but paras in @defun-like things don't have parindent
@parskip 4pt plus 1pt
@end iftex


@titlepage
@sp 10
@title Guile-CV
@subtitle @
  Edition @value{EDITION}, @
  revision @value{MANUAL-REVISION}, @
  for use with Guile-CV @value{VERSION}
@author The Guile-CV Developpers

@c the next two commands start the copyright
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll 
@insertcopying
@end titlepage


@ifnottex
@node Top, Preface
@top @value{TITLE}
@insertcopying
@sp 1
@end ifnottex


@menu
* Preface::
* Introduction::
* Using Guile-CV::
* Guile-CV Core Reference::

Appendices

* GNU Free Documentation License::  The license of this manual.

Indices

* Concept Index::
* Procedure Index::
* Variable Index::
* Type Index::
@end menu


@c insert the table of contents
@contents


@include preface.texi
@include introduction.texi
@include using-guile-cv.texi
@include cr.texi


@node GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License

@include fdl.texi

@include indices.texi

@bye



